From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Jeff May seal like filling
in for a Lawrence Ryan announcing
show. Number 23 recorded Wednesday,
July 5th, 2006. Support for Hansel minutes
is provided by code Smith
tools, makers of code Smith,
an extensible template based code
generator for.net. And now Hanselman
its listeners. Get $100 off
COVID Smith professional with coupon
code H M 100 online
F code Smith tools.com. Support
is also provided by Peter
bloom.com. Start with better controls
finish with better sites online@peterblumdotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks about
the scrum method of project
management.  Hi, this is
Carl Franklin, and you're listening to
Hansel minutes. I'm talking with
Scott Hanselman. Of course, as
I always do this week,
Scotty, we're going to be
talking about scrums at, right.
Absolutely. What is scrum sounds
like a dirty word. It's
actually a rugby term. That
is the thing in rugby
that happens just after there's
a penalty, right? It's when
all the guys get together
and huddle, but it's turned
into an agile method for
project management and for, for
developers to manage software. And
it was, it started in
like, I think it was
like 93. There was a,
there was a reason he
mentioned the first time in
86, it was applied and
in 93, 94 by a
couple of smarter guys than
myself, but it's become a
really nice lightweight project management
methodology, what they would call
an agile methodology and just
the last couple of years,
because it, it doesn't get
in the way of what
you're trying to accomplish and
we're using it at Karelian
right now. It's, it's, it's
gone from being a grass
roots thing to being a
proven, you know, it ships
software. And now it's a
mandate. This is scrum is
how we do the work.
So, so is this basically
everybody gets together and decides
how to prioritize bugs and
assign them to people. And
is it, is there a
much more to it than
that? Well, it's, it's a,
it's a little more formalized
than that. So scrum is
intending to assume that software
development itself, as a process
is complicated and unpredictable. And
since requirements aren't really baked
at the beginning of the
process requirements change as the
process continues, the process itself
will be unpredictable with these
different, you know, changing requirements.
And then when you've got
new tools coming in, the,
the sands are shifting underneath
the entire project. So it's
a project management methodology that
understands that since everything is
changing, how do you, how
do you handle it? Okay.
It's almost like one of
those print, how and a
progress bar. You never really
know when the progress bar
is going to hit a
hundred percent, cause you never
really know when you're done,
right? So you end up
with a progress bar that
gets up to 99, pretty
useless and just sits there.
And that's what happens on
a lot of projects. They
basically, everything works nicely until
99%. And then you sit
there at 99% for months
and then you ship late.
So if you have a
flexible deliverables, you have a
small team. How do you,
how do you make this?
How do you make this
happen? So the idea is
that you start with a
backlog, a backlog of items
that, that you need to
get done. This is the,
all of the items. And
then this is a, this
backlog is a living backlog.
This is something that the
product owner handles. So at
Kirlian, for example, we might
have a product guy. He's
not a technical PM, like
in the Microsoft sense, but
he's a person who says,
I need to get this
work done in this release.
So there's the overall product
like, well, what's, what's the
podcasting thing that you work
on. Plop catcher. Okay. So
prob catcher is the product.
And let's say that there
are some number of releases
of pop catcher. You probably
have an idea all the
way up until like version
five, what you want in
pop catcher. You have every
single feature, every idea that
you've ever thought of every
cool thing you could ever
do to pop catcher. Right?
That's the backlog. Yeah. Okay.
So then you take that
living backlog of items, everything
you want to do in
pop culture from now, as
far as you can think
of items, right? Almost like
in a getting things done,
you just drop everything into
a pile. Then you, as
the product owner prioritize it
and you can actually do
this. Even though you're one
person on one project with
a team of one, you
can do scrum. So you
make this living backlog of
items, you prioritize them. And
then you decide that I
want to have these items
in a release. So I
pick, you know, 20 items
or some number of items
of backlog within that release.
And all of these aren't
necessarily bugs. These are features,
right? Future features, a backlog
item could be a feature.
It could be a bug,
but I think a feature
is probably a good way
to put it. Yeah. A
backlog item is something that
is like a molecule that
can be broken up into
smaller atoms. Okay. So you're
going to take a feature
for a, excuse me, a
backlog item for pop catcher
might be support BitTorrent. Right?
Right. It didn't before. And
now it does. So support
BitTorrent would be a backlog
item, a loaded word. Yeah.
But there's a whole series
of tasks under there. Right?
A task might be research,
BitTorrent, libraries, plugin, bit torn
interface, you know, make BitTorrent
configurable. All of these things
are different tasks. A backlog
item is usually expressed in
terms of days. Like it
might take me six days.
Well, a task underneath that
might be in terms of
hours, like it'll take me
four hours to do this
and eight hours to do
that. Okay. And the backlog
items, total effort is the
sum of all of its
sub tasks. Okay. So the
more detailed task you put
in and the more refined
those tasks are down to
about the two to four
hour level, you roll that
up and you can say,
well, this feature is going
to cost me one man
month or two man weeks
or whatever you come up
with. And by, and then
people pull from that list
of tasks. So the feature
owner is just saying, I
want this, I want that.
I want bit torn. I
want configurability. I want a
pretty icon. And the developers
are pulling from this queue
of tasks, much like they
would from a queue full
of bugs. So whether it's
a bug or whether it's
a new task, it's in
this queue of items and
at the morning or afternoon,
scrum at the daily scrums,
the thing that's fundamental to
scrum is this notion of
a daily, the daily scrum,
we all get together at
this scrum, after we've done
all of our release planning.
And we say, what is
it that I've done? What
is it? That is in
my way and what do
I need to do before
the next meeting Sounds just
like a simple triage thing.
I mean, this is the
kind of stuff that I
used to do. You know,
when I was in the,
in the software business long,
long time ago, I mean,
we never called it scrum,
but I mean, you're just,
you're really basically describing simple
triage meetings so far. Yeah.
One of the things, yeah,
absolutely. One of the things
about any methodology is that,
and with object oriented programming
in general, is that labeling
something, allows everyone to agree
on what it is. Yeah.
Formalizes the protocol. Exactly. It
allows people to formalize a
protocol. So when we have
an understanding of our daily
standup or triage or scrum,
whatever you want to call
it, right? These are the
rules. It's less than 15
minutes. We go around the,
around the room. What have
you done? What will you
do? And what's in your
way. Okay. And that's it.
Anything that comes up like
on the fly design meetings
or I'm, you know, having
an HR problem or my
desk is uncomfortable, has nothing
to do with that meeting.
Right? Those are taken offline
because developers don't like meetings.
So strum recognizes developers. Don't
like meetings. And the, the
scrum master, the scrum master
is the person who is
basically keeping track of the
process. The scrum master maintains
the list of what's going
on. What people have been
working on and their job
is to remove all the
impediments. And so an impediment
might mean, I need a
piece of hardware. They're not
necessarily the leader of the
team, but they're that, that
buffer that sits between the
team and anything that's causing
them pain. Right. So our
scrum master has done stuff
like bias soda and our
scrum master has made sure
we have licenses to certain
pieces of software or installed
MSDN on the server. Yeah.
The groundwork. Well, yeah, they
get the impediments out of
the way that we call
them a productivity buffer. Right.
And so let's start, let's
just refresh for a second.
So we've got our backlog
of features. That's broken down
into these tasks. And then
we say, we do this
in terms of sprints. So
we're going to have a
sprint it's usually a month
long. Sometimes it can be
a couple of weeks. We'd
like to do sprints between
three and four weeks long.
So for this release of
crop catcher, we'll say that
we'll have three sprints. So
it's January. We're going to
come out with pop catcher
April 1st. So we're going to
have a three month release
cycle. We'll have three sprints
one month each. And this
is important at the end
of each sprint, we do
a customer demo. So who's
the customer, they're the guy
who owns the backlog items.
And that's where the customer
gets to see this stuff.
See, what's going on. Say,
I like this. I don't
like that. This is typically
where requirements change. And here's
the part that I think
is cool and is a
little more formalized and maybe
just getting together and figuring
out, Hey guys, what are
we going to do? Okay.
It is that there is
only so much time and
it is finite. It is
known. Right. Right. And because
we're not keeping track necessarily
of what people have got
done as we are keeping
track of how much they
have left to do. Yeah.
So I get into more,
like, let's say it's Monday
morning, I have eight hours
of work to do on
the pop catcher BitTorrent stuff.
Now it's Tuesday morning. I
have six hours. It's obvious
I can do the math.
It took, I got two
hours of work done. Other
things may have taken up
my time, whether or not
I got two hours of
work done. Doesn't change the
fact that I've got six
hours left. So as we
get towards the end of
the sprint, this is the
opportunity for the product owner
to say, wow, I'm going
to have to drop another
feature lower in the priority.
If I'm going to get
this thing done that I
need to get done. So
it isn't just a agile.
Yeah. I guess that's a
little bit different from what
we used to do. We
just used to go through
a list of bugs and
features and, you know, figure
out how long it's going
to take and who gets
it. And it just goes
into a bin and there
isn't really any, I mean,
we have a PR we
had a priority level, but
it just goes into an
inbox basically. And then you
just plow through those things
within the release Inbox, in
this instance would be assigned
a task that the developers
assigned to himself. Yeah. So
typically before each sprint, we
do a splint, a sprint
planning session. We go and
we say, all right, here's
what we're gonna try to
get done in the sprint.
And we never assign more
tasks than there are hours
and people, right? So maximally
here's how much stuff we
would get done. We have
to go and develop the
sprint, decide what we're going
to do. And then people
start assigning task estimates based
on themselves. Right? So this
is where Travis elegant. I
used to get in these
jokes about Hansel minutes. I
used to say, Oh, that'll
take 20 minutes. And he'll
say, no, that's BS. It'll
take 20 Hanselman. You'll have
it in three hours. Right?
So everyone's going to estimate
something different. So in the
sprint planning, we kind of
work out together. Well, this
guy's really optimized to do
that, but this other guy
wants to learn on that.
Well, and she wants to
play with this. So this
is how we're going to
break the workup. This portion
of Hanselman. This is brought
to you by COVID Smith
tools, the most powerful cogeneration
tool on the market with
features such as a template
based cogeneration, a rich integrated
template development environment, including statement
completion and a highly extensible
metadata system. That includes database,
schema, XML, and many other
sources. And now handsome. And
its listeners can get a
hundred dollars off code Smith
professional with coupon code H
M 100 and just go
online to www.covidsmithtools.com. And now
let's get back to Hanselman.
So when, when a, when
a team gets together and
starts assigning these different items,
they don't, they don't bite
off more than they can
chew. Right? We recognize that
in a 40 hour work
week, about 32 hours of
that is going to be
actual development. Time meetings happen
life's happen. Bathroom breaks, life
is life. So there isn't
an unreasonable sense that we're
going to get this done.
And if the, if the
customer, the customer was in
charge of the backlog items,
who's watching the sprint happen,
has an understanding of how
much work can get done.
You have a much more
realistic expectation on the part
of the customer as to
how much is really going
to accomplish. And you can
get some really great charting
of what's going to happen
in the future with what's
called a burn down chart.
You can see an example
of a burn down chart
at shrink stir slash G
F five, and a burn
down chart shows you how
much work you have accomplished.
And it gives you a
sense of velocity. And this
is really interesting after your
couple of weeks into it,
you can see, well, you
know, we're really getting 35
hours a week work done,
or wow, we're consistently getting
20 hours a week. Why
is that? But what's cool
is if you take that
sense of velocity and you
draw a line, a trajectory
with the amount of work
left, as you always know,
right. We set up at
the beginning of the sprint,
there's this much work and
darn it. If they don't
draw a line and give
you the day you'll be
done. Wow. And that's like
that, it's actually a progress
bar. That's telling you at
this rate, we'll be done
here. Yeah. That's great. And
that adjust as you get,
as you get it. And
then what happens is you
can adjust the trajectory of
that line by removing features.
If there's less work to
do, I can pull the
data in. And I imagine
the more that you use
this methodology, the more in
tune you become with the,
you know, the slop factors
and stuff like that. So
you can, and teams start
to understand each other and
they start to realize, Oh,
if you want UI done,
give it to Fred because
he'll, he'll, he'll make that
happen. And also the, the
formalization of a task also
allows you to, while you're
doing that formalized documentation and
testing. So we have this
methodology that we have added
called, done is done. The
guy at our company called
Brian, named Brian. When time
has said, something is done,
when it has a test,
has documentation. Compiles is running
on the build server. Otherwise
it's not done because there's
a certain sense of completion
once you finish the feature.
But until you've documented, it
checked it in run tests,
have full test coverage. And
the other thing is, and
this is separate from scrum
and a little bit more
of a, of a, of
a Kirlian thing. But, but
Brian and teams like his
at our company have said
that if something, what did
he, what did he say?
He used the term. I
want the number of non-software
artifacts to approach zero. So,
so it tells you understand
what your tests are, right?
A word document. Doesn't do
anyone any good? If there
isn't a test to back
it up. So a backlog
item that's really good would
say a pop catcher should
support BitTorrent. There should then
be an end unit test
or series of tests or
entire test suite that answers
the question is that backlog
item done? What does it
mean to support bit torn?
Does that mean download only
or upload and down? When
is it, when is it
done? So if the requirement
has an understanding of when
it's done, there should be
a test that says it's
done. So then the product
owner will be able to
say, Hey, is BitTorrent support
done? Yes. And we have
42 tests. Yeah. So for
any feature at all, you
can, you can back that
up. So you've got your
living backlog of items to
be done. You've got this
fixed set of items and
a series of sprints or
iterations. You've got that brief
daily meeting that scrum, where
we all get around and
say, what have we done?
What's our progress. What's our
work that's coming. And then
what are some impediments? What
are things that are way
that someone can get out
of our way for us?
And then there's planning sessions
where we describe what we're
going to do this sprint.
And then another important part
is the post-mortem it's that
it's that retrospective. And at
the last scrum, a sprint
that I just finished, Brian
hook, he's running our scrums
right now. We went up
onto a big whiteboard and
he said, all right, in
the last month, what do
we want more of? What
do we want the same
amount of, and what do
we want less of? So
then he goes around the
room and we say, Oh,
you know, we want more
tracking. We weren't tracking our
stuff enough in our, our
scrum tool. And we want
more demos. We want less
meetings, you know, and we
basically say, okay, now we're
going to tune the next,
the next sprint. It really
has worked out nice. Then
we happen to be using
a tool called version one
it's version one.com version one,
and this just a web
based tool to manage a
scrum. But some people can
manage their scrums with posted
notes on a whiteboard in
Excel. There's lots of different
tools. The version one tool
is nice for managing dozens
and dozens of projects like
we've got at Kirlian, but
we used to run our
scrums in SharePoint. You know,
you know, you can make
custom lists and SharePoint worked
just great. And then the
number one thing me that's
really important is that the
notion of you have to
deliver that demo, that, that
sprint demo, you never show
something that's not done. And
what does done mean, right?
So there's the stuff on
Wikipedia. There's the scrum management
stuff. So scrum for managers
that is@ashrinkstir.com slash GF to
Wikipedia Holding up in terms
of accuracy for you in
terms of these things. It's
not on these two, on
these two topics, it's not
too bad. It's a little
more historical data that there's
a scrum management link, this
a scrum dev stuff at
shrinks or slash , but
there's a website called control
chaos at shrink stir GF
for that I think is
a really good resource for
understanding scrum cool, but the
best way to learn scrum
in my opinion is to
start with a book. There's
actually a pretty good book,
which is interestingly enough, from
a, from Microsoft press, which
isn't somewhere that you'd think
would, would be into scrum.
But they've got a book
called agile project management with
scrum at shrink stir slash
GF six. And there's an
interesting article at E week
on Microsoft using scrum internally,
it's shrink, stir slash GF
nine. But the interesting thing
is that you can become
a certified scrum master. I've
actually gone through this test
and been certified. So yeah,
I'm the man now, master,
there are a number of
places that can give these
scrum master certifications. And if
you go up to shrinks
your.com/gf seven, they'll tell you
the different kinds of certifications
that you can get. And
the different locations that you
can go to. This is
really useful. We useful training.
I've gone through this training
before. And one of the
things that's nice about it
is that you run through
simulated projects. Like in the
course of a day, you'll
do like five little mini
sprints. I'll show you what
it's like to do. The
management. It can be a
little confusing, but just the
formalization of the naming of
things is enough to tighten
things up. And it actually
works the way developers like
to work with developers, like
to pull tasks that they're
interested in pulling tasks, that
they estimated tasks that they
broke down. So the developers
own the tasks. There's the
sense of, of collective code
ownership and collective task ownership
and the, the backlog person,
the, the customer who owns
the features gets to worry
about the stuff that they
want to worry about. The
backlog items. I just get
you get that torrent working.
I don't care how you
get it working. Right? So
that, that separation is very
clean. And frankly it energizes
the workplace. You know, there's
this sense of we're making
progress, man, did you see
the demo that we did
last month? And you know,
we're getting ready for the
next demo. The agile process
is also to break down
big tasks into little tasks.
So into tasks that can
be completed in a day.
Isn't that right? Yeah, totally.
I like my task to
be less than four hours.
You're right. So then at
the end of the day,
everybody feels like they've accomplished
something and there's an, a
big wait, Oh God. I'm
in the middle of some
great big process. Yeah. And,
and having the, having the,
the sense of a development
concierge is kind of empowering.
I mean, I'd rather not
be the guy I need
to get some development done.
I don't want to mess
with a virtual machine or
install some, you know, so
having this kind of concierge
to handle things that scrum
master to, to manage the
process, isn't necessarily leading the
team, but is your concierge.
I think that's a good
term. Yeah. That's a good
term. It gives a bit
of class to the, to
the title was the scrum
master, right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
I think that it's, it's
definitely worth trying, even if
you're a team of one,
though, the formalization of this
stuff Is, is useful. Yeah.
The backlog item. Yeah. And
then, then the, on the
demo getting information, you know,
it's one of the things
that's fundamental about agile is
continuous integration and having a
working system early on. Right.
And you have to have
a working system early on
if you're going to be
doing yeah. Early on. Yeah.
Especially with the setup and
deployment and all that stuff
that the continuous integration gives
you. Totally. It's very good.
Should I give a link
to the book? The book
was at Amazon at Shaw
shrinker slash GF six. It
is a Microsoft press book,
but it really is a
good one Book. Excellent. Is
how long has this process
been baked? You said it
started in the nineties. There's
a certain 86 officially. It
really started going in, in
the, in the early nineties,
but it feels to me
like it's really hit that
tipping point in the last
three or four years. And
you'll hear about it at,
at all the agile conferences.
And I think that it's,
it's almost like a way
to take the scary stuff
about extreme programming and wrap
it in something that, that
mere mortals and humans can
understand. Yeah. I think that
XP was oversimplified and people
just said, Oh, it's pure
programming. Lots of, lots of
tiny meetings. Scrum is, is
nice, simple, lightweight, formal. And
really doesn't say anything about
how you choose to do
these things. So we still
do peer programming. I've done
a lot of remote peer
programming with folks in other
offices using like remote desktop
and things like that. As
long as the task gets
done and the trajectory, the
velocity looks good and the
burndown looks good. No one
really cares how you get
your work. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
good. Is that a show
Scott? Yeah, I think it
is. Oh, and actually a
follow up from the show
from last week, I did
end up buying the Garmin
NUVI GPS. I got the
new V3 50, the three
60 is the one with
the Bluetooth, but I didn't
want to spend a couple
hundred bucks more for it.
But the real tricky thing
with the new V3 50
that I got to work
through is that it's an
$800 GPS, a hundred us,
which is way more than
I wanted to spend, but
I found a local place
called Carters that would do
it for 700 best buy
does price matching. So best
buy matched car toys priced
at hundred, but I also
had 12% off any single
item at best buy. So
I ended up getting the
thing for 615. So I
got it for 25% off
that must've hurt them. So
606 15, but it's possible
to make that happen. Also
frugal.google.com helped me understand what
were the prices that I
could get this for and
what a great GPS I'm
thrilled with it. You're going
to have to blog about
that. Have you blogged about
it yet? No, it's on
my list. My buddy Patrick
caller was going to show
me how to do weigh
points and some of the
geocashing stuff. Cause he's big
into geocashing. So we'll, we'll,
we'll have a geocashing show
again in the future. Alright,
great. Until then we'll speak
to you later and we'll
talk to you next week.